            Blogging
            Your Home on the World Wide Web
          
    Blogging can come in many forms, many voices, and many platforms. Blogs are about as varied as the people themselves. You can blog about food, crafts, books, films and just about anything else you can think of. As long as you want to keep your blog on the internet, as long as people keep viewing your content, you can be a blogger. These days, a blogger is a sort of career starter or a part-time job.
            
            
    Blogs, or web logs, are--well--a log of anything you choose. Your blog can be about the updates on your website, software or application. Your blog can be about the updates on your life, given you think that people out there can benefit from your experiences. Your blog can be about anything, quite literally.
            
    
    The typical blog comprises of a header, a body and a footer. Different components may be added depending on you and your blog host. You can add a twitter feed, an instagram feed, columns and columns of links and whatever else may suit your fancy. The header typically involves a logo or an overhead banner, and a navigation bar. The body is dedicated to what you have to say. It's a stream of consciousness that you choose to project out onto the world, to do as you like. The footer may have other useful links and ways to contact you. These are the typical components but are by no means the rules. Other blogs may have sidebars where they link their other social media feeds and post other bits of news relevant to the reader.
            
    There's a big community of bloggers out there, and there's also a diverse collection of platforms you can host your blog on. If you have your own website, you may want to host your blog on there, but if you want something a little more non-committal, there may be platforms for you. Looking for the right platform is like looking for housing, you have to invest in the right one for you.
            
    Blogger and Wordpress are just two of the most popular platforms out there. They're user-friendly, visually-appealing and have many features that may suit you. Before, Multiply was one of the better known ones, but now, Multiply is home to many online shops and such. Another popular blogging platform, popular with a younger audience is Tumblr--home of the fangirls and recluses. It's a fun social media platform to pass the time, find inspiration and indulge in a community as zany as you are. The list goes on and on, all you have to do is to do your research and know what you want in your blog. The community can be very helpful to first-time bloggers.
          
    Now anyone can own their own little piece of the internet they can do as they please with. To think of it, a few years ago, it was a lot harder to get yourself heard. To get your work published, you'd have to approach a newspaper or bulletin, now self-publishing is as easy as signing up and clicking 'post'. However, it could also be that with the amount of original content online, with the saturation of blogs on the World Wide Web, it's harder and harder to set yourself apart. Whichever the case, blogging is an interesting outlet with lots of advantages.
    
    The World Wide Web opens its doors to many sorts. You may be just passing by, or you may like what you see and decide to stay a while. Make yourself at home, decorate a bit, stay a while. Your blog is a decision to contribute to the content on the World Wide Web. It's your little corner where your voice can be heard. Tell your story.